30 Minutes Human # 00041
Departure, Abuse, Packing, Manipulation, Rot
September 8, 2025

He ended up throwing eight pebbles into the water. It was comforting to watch them penetrate the murky surface and vanish entirely, perhaps never again to see the light of day, and leave behind naught but a hole, a small water column, and an expanding ripple of water.
The eighth pebble he knew to be the last, because when it left his hand he realized that he no longer cared. The exercise was done. It was time to move on.
Hands back in his pockets, he walked back down the pier toward the coastal road. He was in no hurry, but saw no point in delaying, either. His mind was made up. Life was what awaited at the other side of this decision.
He arrived back at the house a little while later and let himself in. As always, although the living room and kitchen were well-organized, the air within was heavy and stale. He shook his head, wondering why he’d allowed himself to live like this for so long. He’d lost years of life in this place.
He took his coat off and went into the back room. A distant part of him was surprised that he simply strolled in; his earlier self might’ve paused at the entrance to prepare for what was about to happen. But that wasn’t him anymore. That was done. Some string had snapped.
“You were gone long enough,” she said from the bed. It sounded like a croak. It had always sounded like a croak, but he only just noticed it.
“I’ve made a decision,” he said.
“Oh? That sounds important.” Teasing. Nonchalant. Vaguely threatening.
“Yes,” he nodded. “I’m leaving you.”
“Hmm?” It had registered, but it hadn’t landed. Then she shifted in the bed, though he heard it happen more than he saw it. “What’s that?”
“I’m leaving you. Today.”
There was no response.
“I might ask you if you heard me well, if you understand. But I don’t care anymore. I’m done.” That last bit he also said to himself, and he liked the way it sounded.
He pulled the ladder to the attic down, made his way up, and returned a short time later with the usual suitcase and a backpack. When he’d threatened departure before he’d never brought the backpack, he realized. Without it he couldn’t carry everything, and it would make a move out unpractical.
“What are you doing?” she asked loudly.
He didn’t respond, but entered the room and went to the closet. He considered turning the light on, but she’d scream abuse and make a fuss of it, then claim he’d mistreated her. He saw, deep down, that he’d no longer care about those, but he also preferred to avoid the ugliness if he could.
He packed in the dark. Light coming from the hallway was sufficient, despite the gray, moody weather outside. Pants, shirts, socks, underwear. A belt, two belts. He went into the restroom and started putting his toiletries in a plastic case (comb, toothbrush, toothpaste, though he placed this last item back, to not leave her lacking).
Then it started.
“So you’re leaving me, are you? You brave, brave man. Stick around for when it’s good, leave when it gets difficult. That’s just like you.”
He packed his deodorant and returned to the suitcase, which lay in the corner by the door. What was he missing?
“Do you remember everything I did for you when you were sick? How I fed you, how I nursed you. You’d babble and drool and I’d give you one spoonful at a time. I cleaned the bed when you made a mess, every time. And this is the thanks I get.”
His baseball cap. He’d always treasured his baseball cap. She’d gifted it to him an eternity earlier, when things were different. Or before things had changed, at least. That wasn’t the baseball cap’s fault.
“It’s easy to walk away. That’s what cowards do. But you’ve always been a coward, haven’t you? Just a weak little man. You’ve always been my little nothing.”
He pulled his old sneakers out and contemplated them in the dim light. They were an embarrassment. He’d saved enough for new ones once, but had ended up spending that money on silky pajamas for her. The sneakers went back in the closet.
She saw that he wasn’t reacting to the violence, so she changed her tune. Her voice became smaller, sadder. “Remember how it used to be? I think about it a lot. We were amazing once. How you’d look at me. How you’d do this little trembling when I held you, when I kissed you. Is none of that left? After all we’ve been through?”
Rifling through the back corner of the closet he found a hoodie he hadn’t worn in years. It smelled like storage, but the mothballs had done their job. A quick wash and it would be as new. In the suitcase it went.
“Remember that first date, with the car, with the chocolates and the fancy rice we had? I think about it a lot. Just the two of us, we didn’t need anything else.”
He figured that he had about a week’s worth of garments packed. The suitcase could still hold a bit more, so he added more clothes. He’d never return here, so anything left would be forgotten. He hoped the zipper would hold when he shut it.
“So you’re leaving me, are you? Walking away from the love of your life. We’re not going to watch any more shows or any more news, or laugh about things over soup and chicken.”
He thought about that one. They hadn’t laughed about anything in a long time. At least not together.
Now it was time for the backpack. He put some spare underwear in it, seeing wisdom in not further tightening the suitcase, and stepped out with it to fill it with some of his favorite books. On the way back he entered  at the restroom and added medicines he might need, including his topical cream. Best to not leave that one behind.
“Are you actually leaving this time?” There was a hint of concern to her voice now. The pitch of her words grew as he closed the zipper on the suitcase. He had to sit on it for it to close, but the zipper looked like it would hold well. “You can’t actually leave. You can’t abandon me here like this.”
He went through the closet with his eyes, then mentally through the house. There were two trophies and a photograph he wanted, but those were small and would fit in the backpack. And his documents. He couldn’t forget those. They’d almost slipped his mind—his cards, his passport, the bank documents. He’d separated his from hers months earlier, when he last attempted to leave. They’d be easy to fish out.
He went to the door of the room, paused, and turned back.
“Goodbye. Good luck.”
As he stepped out and gathered those last few items he heard her speak loudly, then yell, then screech. Then there was the sound of something heavy falling on the floor, and then something that sounded like squealing.
He put on his baseball cap, opened the door, and left the house.

[Author’s notes: The very first scene was inspired by a Seinfeld episode, but it quickly became something else. I thought this morning that I’d like to do more character work, and this was fun and I think went well. This could also be described as a complete stand-alone story; perhaps they’ll start to materialize with some regularity.]
