30 Minutes Human # 00042
Cavern, Forbidden, Wrath, Vision
September 9, 2025

Don’t touch it, he told himself.
Don’t you touch it, or there’ll be trouble.
But touch it he did. He couldn’t help himself. It was shiny, It was round, and it changed colors regularly.
There was hell to pay, of course. The Big Chump jumped down and bashed the nearest Gomp in the skull, possibly killing him. He swatted aside two other Gomps, who were likely maimed. But Nik was at the back, behind some rocks and in the shadows, so he figured he could not be identified.
“Who did it? Who touched it?” yelled the Big Chump, swinging his big hairy arms, looking around with his eyes a-crazy. “Who dares contradict my instruction? I know all, I know it was touched. So who was it, you troupe of clowns and thieves?” In so saying, he grabbed another Gomp and smashed him against a pillar. That one was probably gone as well.
Nik had identified a group of Gomps that were all huddled nearby. It wasn’t the biggest such group, nor the smallest. It wasn’t the closest to the Button, but it wasn’t the farthest. And it wasn’t entirely out of the way—he’d never be able to reach that one—but it wasn’t directly in the Big Chump’s path, either.
It was as safe as he could hope to be. And he’d touched it. Nobody else had. Except the Big Chump, of course.
“Who touched it?! Tell me now! I know it was touched, I know everything!”
Nik considered that he couldn’t know everything, or he’d know who’d touched it. He wasn’t the only one who thought this. But they all cowered down when he approached and tried to appear small.
He didn’t know if anybody else had seen him touch the Button, but he wasn’t worried. He didn’t think he’d be reported on. Why would they? Death came randomly regardless, as did pain. The Big Chump had made no friends for himself.
“I will find out!! Whooooo?!” His words became a loud groaning wail, and he stomped around and kicked some Gomps, and slapped the columns and the walls, and grabbed one Gomp and bit his face off, but everybody cowered, and nobody spoke.
The Big Chump couldn’t kill them all, most of them figured. It wouldn’t make any sense for him to do that. They waited for it to pass.
And pass it did. Eventually the Big Chump realized that he was getting nowhere and was slaying his labor force, so he just cast himself in the corner, yelled angrily a few times, threw some rocks, and was quiet. He’d not leave the Button out of his sight again, not for a while.
Eventually he’d return to the Seat. It was more comfortable than anything else. Though he doubted it, perhaps one of them would try again. That possibility couldn’t be helped.
The Gomps, seeing that the Big Chump had calmed down, slowly emerged from their terrified crouch and sat back up again. They glanced at each other, checking who was still around. A couple of sad wails rang out. They were sharp, painful, and brief. The Big Chump allowed sorrow, but only if it didn’t vex, annoy, or trouble him. If it did all three, there was hell to pay.
Most of the time, it was none of them or all three of them. In this case, the misery lasted not enough for it to really register.
Nik sat up at the same time as the rest of his group and looked around. He’d gotten away with it. He couldn’t believe it. He’d been hoping to touch the Button for some time, and had thought of how he might get away with it, but he’d made peace with possible death before attempting it. Bravery wasn’t a trait that flowered much among Gomps, and the Big Chump’s actions generally discouraged any emergence thereof.
They all started milling about again, speaking again in hushed tones. Nobody discussed or really cared about who’d touched the button; at this point, it was largely irrelevant. A few of them hated the toucher but would never speak even if they knew his identity. It was a risk to get the herd against themselves. And others, perhaps more, secretly took joy and strength from its having been touched.
Only then, when the danger was past him and he could squat in a corner, look about himself, and consider the previous hour, did Nik think about what he’d felt when he’d touched the Button.
At first, when he looked back, he remembered nothing of consequence. It was cool and bright, and when he touched it it became even brighter. He felt a brief light prick on the tip of his finger. That might’ve been it, initially.
But then he remembered the block, and he knew not what to make of it. A sizeable brown block had appeared in his mind’s eye, cubic in shape (had he known the word, that’s what he would’ve said) and uniform in color and visual texture. It was also in a cavern, but not a cavern like this one. That cavern’s walls were darker and smoother and perhaps dark blue, but that hue may have been produced by glowing light that came from nooks and cracks in the walls themselves. He thought the air there might feel cool on his face. He also felt that it might feel safe.
He did not know what to make of this. He’d never imagined such a thing before, and why would he? It was a puzzling thing, a puzzling shape, a puzzling location. He’d never been close to anything like it. But since touching the Button he could recall it. And it intrigued him mightily.
The Big Chump wasn’t entirely spewing nonsense, then. 

[Author’s notes: I cheated on this one, and was going to keep cheating, but then decided against it. I wrote this while waiting to board a flight that was initially delayed, but then it was un-delayed, and I lost the time I thought I had. I wrote 12-13 minutes at the airport gate, then another 5-6 before take-off, and at that point having continued would’ve been violating the rules. I’ll leave it at this. The idea was for the vision in Kip’s mind to change in some way as time went on, but I guess we’ll never know where that could’ve gone.]
