30 Minutes Human # 00048
Soldiers, Trenches, Grenades, Strategy, Camaraderie
September 22, 2025

"Get down, you stupid fuck!"
Alvarez yanked his poker partner back down into the trench, and Gomez felt a bullet whiz right over his head. That one had been needlessly close.
"What the fuck, man. Be careful," said Alvarez. It didn't even feel like a rebuke, but more like a parent warning a child off the stove. Their relationship had really come a long way, thought Gomez.
"Yeah," he responded. Then, after a moment, "Thanks."
Alvarez signaled north and they started moving in that direction, heads down, knees bent. The top of their heads were about a foot lower than the top of the trench, but it made no sense to take unnecessary chances.
They moved this way for about ten minutes, opting for left at both forks in the path. Eventually they reached the medical station, where Alvarez asked Valencia if he had any water.
The medic glanced at them, his gaze largely neutral but tinged with a hint of disbelief. He seemed to be weighing his words. Ultimately, he went with, "Not for you guys. Keep moving."
Alvarez grunted and moved on. Gomez and Valencia shared a look, and then the latter returned his attention to the cotton balls he was sorting into different glass bottles.
An explosion sounded behind them, and Gomez estimated that they'd passed the affected spot about six minutes earlier. 'Always move, don't stay still,' flashed through his mind. The words had been drilled into their minds months earlier, and he'd been grateful for it several times since then.
"Hey," he said. Alvarez didn't respond, but just kept moving. "Hey," he said again, a little louder. Gomez was relatively easy-going, but he didn't like to be ignored. Most of their squad had learned that by now.
"What?" asked Alvarez from in front.
"Where are we going? Man, stop."
Alvarez stopped and glanced around. "I want grenades. Let's get some grenades."
Gomez stared at him, eyebrows risen almost to his hairline. "You're looking for grenades? Why the fuck?"
"We go back there and get those fuckers who shot you."
"Man, what are you talking about? They're long gone."
"Yeah, but we know where they went. We know how they move."
"That's just a theory."
"Then let's test it out. If it works, it could be a big deal. Come on." Alvarez had put the butt of his rifle down and was staring at his friend. "We need a fucking break, man. See if something changes. If not for all of us, at least for the two of us."
They stared at each other, one with a stubble, the other with a full beard. Neither had a helmet, given that those had run out a while earlier. Alvarez somehow had the time and the energy to cut his hair well enough and looked decent. Gomez had long given up on that and just shaved relatively close to the scalp. They were the same age, their skin the same tone, their eyes of similar hue. They'd been from different worlds before all of this, but they'd come to understand each other like old friends.
"You really think it'll work? To be clear: you really think you can identify them by the way they fire, and then guess how they move?"
"Yes. You've made some great observations on this in the past. It's just a matter of paying attention them. All we can do here is see when and where they shoot. But it's a fingerprint, man. It's enough. Come on."
Gomez thought back to two nights earlier. They'd been playing against Romero and Valencia (the repairman, not the medic), and Alvarez had once again laid out his theory. They hadn't cared for it much, but they couldn't really be expected to. They weren't out there in the thick of it every day. They didn't see that perhaps there was something to this.
"Alright. Let's go. But if you want grenades, we're not going to find them here. I heard Pereira talking about a big push they're making on the double hill. If you want grenades, they'll be there."
Alvarez considered this for a moment. There would be other mobile depots of them, but that seemed like a good bet. He nodded and they started moving whence they'd come from, with Gomez now leading the way.
As they passed Valencia's medstation, he whistled at them and threw a mostly consumed water bag at the twosome. Gomez smiled and Alvarez winked at him. The medic would be invited to the next poker game, even if it meant having two Valencias at the table.
They continued with their fast stoop for a while, always in the direction of the double hill, until they started hearing regular explosions and gunfire. Then Gomez stopped for a moment and they shared what water remained in the bag.
They found the first of the group minutes later. He was sitting down, wincing, his hand on his ribcage. It was Nimo.
"You get hit?" asked Gomez.
"No, man. I don't think so, at least. Just a really bad side-stich. Fucking terrible."
"Let me see," said Gomez. Nimo lifted his hand and there was no evident blood. Gomez nodded and signaled to Alvarez, and they kept moving. No sense in over-contemplating over that scene.
The rest of the group was around a bend just down the trench. It seemed to be going well; spirits were high and Pereira was in an unusually buoyant mood, even for him. Alvarez glanced at the far end of the trench and saw two of their own stacked on each the other. Death had lost its edge by now, and if only two men had gone down so far, then this was indeed going well. That said, Alvarez had no interest in finding out who the casualties were just yet.
Ammo and supplies were in two main clusters. Most of the action was going on at the far end, so Alvarez and Gomez rifled through the crates and quickly found the grenades. Between the two of them, they took eight.
"You guys gonna be joining the fun?" asked Serna. He'd reached in and taken two of them for himself.
Gomez simply scrunched his face up, shook his head, and smiled. Serna grinned and the two soldiers parted ways from the group, going back the way they'd come.
"So how long has it been?" asked Gomez as they moved.
"About 25 minutes," responded Alvarez.
Gomez nodded. That meant only one cycle, according to Alvarez's theory. Their enemies would be be at what had come to be known as 'The Lump Spot', a slightly wider trench area close to an overgrown corner of the adjacent forest.
Upon arriving there they stood at the main point of the Spot, their heads close to each other. They'd only have two seconds, maybe three. Three seconds that had to count; this couldn't be a screw-up.
Alvarez said, "Careful. See you back here in a moment. We move back that way," he said with a nudge of the head. Then he grabbed his friend's head, gave it a light headbutt, and got into position.
"Now," he whispered. They popped their heads out and flung the first two grenades into the foxhole before them.

[Author's notes: Started writing this while listening to Cradle of Filth's "Hallowed be Thy Name" cover. Finished with "Whale of a Tale" from 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea and Foreigner's "Jukebox Hero". I liked the characters and the setting; hope their strategy works out. // Editing notes: I way overindexed in referring to how long things lasted in the first draft. A moment here, two moments there, a couple of seconds, etc. etc.]
