30 Minutes Human # 00045
Sign, Message, Subway, Language, Rats
September 14, 2025

AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
She stared at the sign from below. She’d glanced at it, looked at it, but never stared at it.
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
There was a red line under the white text. For lack of a better word, it snaked under the letters, beginning to taper off toward the right before being cut off by the edge. The background of the sign was black. There was nothing else on it.
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
She didn’t like it. It made her feel naked and uncomfortable. She began to walk toward the underground station once more, more briskly than before, the sign continuing to loom above and behind her. She’d see it again as she went to the Cardboard and would not be able to ignore it now. To pretend it wasn’t there. Not today, not ever.
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
The text was in her mind’s eye as she descended, as was the troubling red line. So was the profundity of the black background. It was a void, that black.
“Ankkarr pritt nas nasili,” said the man in the uniform. He stood by and waved the crowd through with movements that were simultaneously uninspired and threatening. “Ankkarr, ankarr.”
She pulled her quench from her blouse and stretched it down to the reader, where the small glowing circle turned purple. The fuzzy green screen vanished. She passed it and saw it appear again from the corner of her eye.
The sign appeared again once she started to turn the corner. It was embedded on the wall of white tile, its message no less oppressive than when it sat far above the street:
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
She had to approach the sign in order to pass it, and she saw that it was directed at her. At her personally. It was also directed at everybody else walking with her and in the opposite direction. The message was for each and it was for all.
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE
As she passed it the words vanished out of her line of sight, but she knew what it said. Unwillingly, she found herself slightly leaning toward her left as she walked.
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
She knew what it said. Now she’d always know what it said.
There was a line ahead of her, people waiting for a pedestrian jam to clear from the top of the escalators. She studied the neck of the woman in front of her. A silken white blouse not dissimilar to her own, a brown coat lined with cheap fur. Or maybe not cheap—upon deeper inspection, the fabric on it looked relatively high end. Her hair was done up in a nice bun and was held in place by a bright yellow band. As the woman approached the escalator and reached out her hand, she saw well-painted and polished nails and spotless white skin.
Another woman like her, then. One of many, of so many, perhaps doubting, perhaps not. One could not be sure, one could never ask.
“Waimli, menefil,” said the man behind her. She snapped out of it; the woman had already gone ahead, and she was causing delay for everybody behind her. She muttered an apology and got on the escalator herself, one narrow enough to not allow passengers to pass each other. Everybody had to wait. All had to be patient.
The wagon was at the platform when she stepped off the escalator, so she picked up her pace for the last couple of steps in order to make it in. As she entered, her quench softly vibrated. She was  now registered as a passenger and could safely continue on her trip.
The woman with the yellow hair tie had secured a seat. As she watched, other women boarded as well. All similarly dressed, all with comparable hairstyles. Even then, there was more variety to them than to the men, whose identical haircuts and coveralls made for unmemorable blandness.
Eventually the doors closed and they started moving, first at a slow crawl, eventually at decent speed. She’d kept her eyes on the space before her, but upon glancing toward the upper edge of the wagon she saw words she didn’t want to see:
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
It was immediately above and in front of her. She’d seen it a million times, but now that she’d spent time on it she felt rooted to the floor. A terrified bile rose up within her.
Her eyes flitted about the passengers traveling with her, but none of them said anything, none of them moved much, none of them acted like they were anything but parcels on a speeding vehicle. None of them was watching the sign, then. They were at peace with it. Like she’d also been, until earlier this morning.
“Ngerrifi askamas ñe-ño,” said a voice from the speakers. Nobody moved, but everybody was listening. An older man sitting close to her glanced around, he perhaps a little more jaded and a little more tolerant, but he hadn’t made it this far by acting like a fool. “Baballas. E andi e flancis.”
She stepped back from the left-side door reflexively upon hearing this, and did so just in time to see the rats in their pursuit. There was a torrent of them, unconcerned by the train and by the hazards of the tunnel, and they flowed one on top of the other like a mammalian thick fluid.
Then there was thumping on the ceiling of the wagon, and she knew that the bigger rats, the Dwendis, were running about above. She wondered why the conductor or the system didn’t slow down; wasn’t there a significant risk of accident? Moreover, in addition to the thread this posed to them all, didn’t it also present the risk of significant delays to other passengers who might be behind them and unable to make further process until the Dwendis issue was sorted out?
AND IF WE DON’T SNAKE THE ROOM
For a moment she’d forgotten the text, but now that she glanced up it had a different meaning. Snakes liked to eat rats, didn’t they? And rats were their problem. How could they find snakes to resolve it quickly and effectively?
The question faded from her mind; she had no influence there at all. She was just with Cardboard. That was it. Snakes, rats, none of it was for her to have a say on.

[Author’s notes: This was initially going to be 1984ish, but then I literally started falling asleep while I typed (had a big lunch), so it became this mess. Too bad, it showed promise at first. // Post-edit notes: It didn’t come out nearly as bad as I feared, save for the very end of it. I liked having the language be gibberish.]
