30 Minutes Human # 00043
Meeting, Sales, Poor Performance, Recruiting, Human Resources
September 11, 2025

“We can’t continue having this drop at the end of every week. What are we doing about it?”
Amanda started to speak, but he cut her off.
“Sorry. Before that, can you list everything we’ve tried?”
“Yes,” she said. She thought about it for a moment, stood up, and gestured for the red marker. Then she wiped half the board—the half with the territory distribution—and wrote a list of initiatives. Eight items, each of them a significant investment of effort and resources. None of them had worked. As an afterthought, she added next to each the amount of time they’d invested in each.
“We haven’t been doing these for this long, that adds up to like a year and a half.” said Jonah from the back. He immediately regretted it, because the response to his comment was obvious, but there was no taking it back, and now he’d look like a fool.
“We’ve been doing these in parallel, Jonah,” she said, a tired edge to her voice. Jeffrey thought, for a moment, that their sales momentum (or lack thereof) had to be wearing on her. Jonah nodded and kept quiet for the rest of the meeting.
“What happened with the Friday commish-boost?” asked Jeffrey, referring to the fifth item on the list. “That was a good thought, and I remember that there was some chatter and an initial pick-up in results.”
“They don’t want to stay out hard or late on Fridays,” she answered. “So they started requesting that same boost for early mornings and weekday nights instead.”
“How many are they, again?” asked Bella. “Total?”
“Total sales reps? One thousand, three-hundred and thirty-two,” replied Amanda.
“And the commish-boost fell flat across the country?”
“Yes.”
“That’s a hugely generous deal. It could increase their earnings by ten percent, twenty even. It doesn’t make sense.”
“Yeah. So—” Amanda hesitated for a moment. Saying what was on her mind could cost her dearly. But she was out of other ideas. “So maybe it’s a recruiting problem. Maybe we’re not hiring the right attitude, the right culture. Maybe it’s in the people. Salespeople are incentivized by money. Sometimes you get missionary salespeople, but that’s rare. So if these guys don’t care about the money and evidently don’t care about the products, maybe we’ve hired wrong.”
“How do you hire thirteen hundred people the wrong way?” asked Bob. He was normally bored at these sales reviews, but this train of thought he found both intriguing and absurd. “That’s a huge number of people to have screwed up on.”
“Amanda, look into it, will you?” asked Jeremy. “See how the reps are being selected and trained. And to your point, this time look more at the selection than at the training.”
“Alright,” she nodded. She had an idea of what she’d find, largely because she’d put it there herself. But it was time to face the decisions of rasher early days.
The rest of the meeting went by uneventfully. Bella gave Amanda a meaningful look while Bob and Jeffrey discussed discount structuring, but she wasn’t quite able to interpret what it meant.
After a quick lunch of cold tuna on flimsy bread and a small carton of milk, Amanda drove to the admin office. As she sat in traffic behind a dark purple Honda, a color decision that she would never in a million years have made, she thought back to that conversation with Emmett. 
“Hire them for charm,” she’d said. “Hire them for the sort of youthful charm you let into your house to liven up your day. That nonchalance, that je ne sais quoi that characterizes youth. That’s what we want.”
It had been three years earlier, when there had just been a few dozen sales reps under her. That was before everything had exploded, and when things had exploded everything looked sunny and all possibilities were on the table. They couldn’t lose, she couldn’t lose. Numbers were going up. There was ceaseless chatter about the brand.
All thanks to a meme. A meme that became an entire meme category. Everybody and their mother wanted Lockley products.
Then the fad had died away and public imagination had moved somewhere else. It had been an insane year and a half, projections had been massively inflated, and expectations had rocketed to the stratosphere. Once that was done, and reality had started to set in again, they’d had to face the process of coming back down. And it hadn’t been easy. It still wasn’t.
Amanda could only assume that Emmett was still hiring for what she’d told him to hire for. Nonchalance and charm. She now remembered that Jay had mentioned to her that people were whispering that the sales reps were being hired out of community colleges, trade schools, or even high school. She hadn’t thought much of it at the time—rumors were often just that, and there wasn’t anything wrong with those institutions. She’d put it aside and largely forgotten about it.
Now it was back, and in full force. She’d not properly spoken with Emmett in a long time. They often had brief chats about rep numbers and timelines constantly, but they’d not spoken about strategy since that fateful conversation. As she pulled into the parking lot she hit the sidewalk with her front-right tire and winced; most of her reaction wasn’t because of the tire impact.
Emmett was where he’d always been. She’d read somewhere that, on average, Human Resource people tended to stay at a company for much longer than employees from most other areas, so she wasn’t surprised to find that, unlike many others in the company who’d jumped ship to extraordinary offers in the rosy days of yesteryear, he’d stuck around.
“Hey Emmett,” she said, knocking on the open glass door.
“Amanda! What a surprise, it’s been a while! Come in, come in!”
His smile seemed genuine, but one could never be too sure. There was no telling what he imagined or had already heard, and HR folk had to cover the truth so often that it sometimes became second nature.
“The view from this office gets better every year,” she said. Perhaps it didn’t, but other office views, on average, got worse; more cubicles, more windows aimed at adjacent buildings, more workspaces increasingly lit exclusively by electric lighting. Jeff had a lovely view of a park thick with trees and bright with green grass, a park that housed an oft-used children’s playground with a slide and swings right in the middle.
“Choose early and choose carefully,” he said with a laugh. “Have a seat, please. How’ve you been, how’s everything at the office?”
Her smile faded, and she just shrugged. “You know. Not as we’d like. But we keep trooping.”
“Right. Yeah,” he responded, silence settling between them for a moment.

[Author’s notes: I think there’s a certain distaste for HR in the tone of this piece. A guy I once worked with came to mind a couple of times while I wrote it, and he wasn’t somebody I particularly cared for, so that was probably influential. Also, the fact that reality continues after the happy-ending movies end is something that screenplays often conveniently ignore. When the “what happened after” text rolls and it’s realistic, it’s usually depressing. E.g. in American Graffiti.]
