30 Minutes Human # 00049
Bully, Brazil, Basketball, Fight, Cruel
September 24, 2025

Lo, and see how wide the fields grew. See how great and tall the corn and wheat became under that grand rain and sun. The dew was but a consequence of the beauty of what came before, what remained, and what thrived.
There was much joy in that time, much celebration, much love and cherishing of what had arrived and what they could look forward to. Alas, times of plenty lead to optimism rampant, perhaps too rampant, for they came to believe that this would last forever.
They came to believe that food would be on the table for years centuries-long, that the children of their grandchildren would enjoy this plenty, and that all would bask in wealth and wellbeing. That the harvest would be one of variety and sturdy crop, that the rains would continue to come generous when needed and light when merely useful. That the cattle and the fowl would grow fast and fat and provide meat and eggs always aplenty.
That the houses would remain free of dust.
The the defining emotion around the table would be merriment.
That joy would become a birthright of the land.
Time enough passed like this, time enough so it grew from assumption to entitlement. The wise of yesteryear might have assumed that this entitlement was trouble enough, but even the belief that plenty is forever can be corrupted into something worse: it became the baseline, the basic assumption of life in the Hawn.
After two generations, insufficiency was a lesson.
After three generations, it was a story.
After four generations, it started to become a myth.
After five generations, the first of the rattlesnakes came.
Land that does not stop providing makes the people lazy. It makes them ignorant, it makes them uncaring. They bask in sun and food and beauty. If the land offers neither threat nor danger, it can make them forget that there might be such a thing as a land that fails to welcome them.
The rattlesnakes began to appear in the valleys of the South Menn. The women began to find them among their plum trees. 'Twas very occasional, and they were early on but an annoyance, for although their forefathers had failed to pass on the knowledge of what these creatures represented, there was an instinctive aversion to the snake. So the women swung sticks and branches at the creatures. Some they struck, some got away.
Then came the first bite, the first casualty. That a snake's venom could result in harm and death was thought but a myth, even by the grown-ups. A few whispers scattered when the woman walked no more, when her song stopped being heard by the river and the trees.
More bites came. More deaths. With them came fear and an almost synchronized retreat of the people from the valleys. They were loathe to depart, for they thought that land their birthright, but when both the wife and child of a Ley succumbed to the venom of the monsters within days of each other, the people spoke to each other and raised their voices.
It was at first a question: to stay and fight, or to migrate and forget?
Despite the peace and plenty of those days, there had often been episodes of violence. It came naturally to them, as it indeed comes naturally to us, because even when the land provides, man will often desire the mate or bounty of his brother.
The decision to fight was well-met, and for a brief time the harvest was paused while the men lurked in the border-lands of the plum harvest and sought the creatures' nests. Nothing was found, and after a time there arose celebration, for the people assumed that the rattlesnakes were gone.
The women returned. Shortly thereafter, so did the snakes, and then the deaths once more. Another cycle of violence was proposed, this one more vicious, angrier. The men had been laughed at, it seemed. Snakes once again conveniently vanished, however, and after once again a first woman was bitten, one who had valiantly determined to check on some plum trees while the men hunted the nests, a sudden decision was reached.
They would leave that land behind; land that their grandfathers had settled and established homes and cropland on. There was much terrain that they could still develop, and that this was no longer a place for them suggested nothing about the rest of the vast and beautiful land.
They left. They traveled west on the river and started there again. Brief time passed; they chose a new crop, the peach and its rich juices, and began their task again. It seemed, for a moment, that the inconvenience in the valley had been but a passing moment.
One of them, a young farmhand, thought to return to the plum trees. He wished to provide his mother with a gift on her Day, and knew that nothing would bring her nearly as much joy as a basket of plums. He left one night, supplies and comfortable garments in hand, and trekked back to where he had been born.
He found a desert. This was no longer the lush green valley where he had played as a child, where he had learned the early lessons of life. It was barren, unnaturally barren, the remains of the plum trees dead husks that appeared to have lain there for decades on end, if not more. They were petrified skeletons of a past seemingly so distant that it seemed to offer nothing for the present man.
It hadn't been a distant past, however. It had been recent, so recent that the young man could still detect the air of the valley in his memories. He twice confirmed that this was the right place, for it seemed like a mistake, but there was no avoiding it; this horrid, parched wasteland was his recent home.
When he heard the rattles, he fled.
When he returned to his new home, the snakes had just begun to appear there as well.
The trade routes crossed at certain outposts that had started to become settlements of significant size, and the caravan-men who met at them started to share similar stories. Rattlesnakes at the borders of their crop-fields, deadly bites, terrorized women and children, useless attempts at hunting and removing the pests. This generated disquiet, for it was an experienced shared by many groups, but true concern sparked when the farmhand's anecdote became known.

[Author's notes: none, forgot to write any because I was about to miss a very early flight]
