30 Minutes Human # 00038
Youth Camp, Africa, Guide, Wisdom, Banter
September 4, 2025

The avocado rolled down the hill, bounced off a pebble, flew for about a meter, and landed in the crook of a tree’s root, its movement ended by the precise shape of the plant it had come across.
“See? Now repeat that.” Gula walked down, grabbed the avocado, and gave it to Seye. “Go ahead.”
Seye knew his odds and figured that he was being made an example of. He didn’t see much of a way out, but that didn’t keep him from trying to talk his way out of it. “But the avocado’s shape was changed. And maybe that pebble it hit is no longer there. I can’t guarantee anything.”
“So you’re not going to try? I thought there was more to you than that.” They looked at each other for a moment, the Liberian giving the younger Yoruba a sly grin.
It was a lose-lose situation, and Seye knew it. But he wouldn’t walk away from this with his tail between his legs. Without breaking eye contact, he dropped the avocado on the ground and watched it roll elsewhere from the corner of his eye.
“See?” he asked. “I told you. Can’t be replicated.” Then he stood, looked around, and asked what the next lesson was.
Gula indicated that the three of them should follow him towards a tall acacia that stood a short distance away. The tree was by itself, the rest of the rise it occupied holding but grass and inconsequential shrubbery.
“Are you going to ask us which way the tree will roll if we cut it? It can’t be replicated,” said Kamali. He regretted it instantly; the older man would find a way to teach his lesson regardless. But Gula had other ideas.
“Look toward where the sun will set. What do you see?”
“You want us to describe the landscape?” Kamali asked a bit defensively. He knew he had it coming, so he might as well deserve it. But Gula just nodded.
“Yes. Please.”
Kamali did. He described the plants and trees, the scattered buildings, the lone visible road, the corner of the lake, and the horizon. Then he thought about it for a moment and added a description of the sky.
“Why did you start with the land?” asked Gula.
“What do you mean?”
“Why did you start with the land? The sun sets from above, but you described the ground below.”
“I don’t understand what you’re getting at. I’m a land-dwelling creature. I think of the land first.”
“But what do you see more of?”
“The sky, I suppose.”
“You’re thinking of your corner of the world as a reference point, but the world around is much bigger and complex. Also, starting with that reference point may bias the perspective with which you describe the entire thing. To others and to yourself.”
Barasa had been silent throughout all this, but at this comment, he spoke up. He no longer understood what they were doing up here, and the ‘wisdom’ Gula was sharing didn’t seem to be particularly special. He felt that, although none of what they were being told was wrong, these were lessons that worked better when they were applied to a particular situation.
“I’d like to return now,” said Barasa. “To go back to the camp.” Neither of the other two said anything, but their body language spoke for them. They’d had enough of this.
Gula looked at the three of them in turn, saw disinterest, and realized that he’d lost his audience. Further insistence would just make matters worse; like Seye a few minutes earlier, he knew that how he exited might define things to come afterwards.
“Sure. I thought you’d find value in this. Let’s go,” he said casually.
And as if he didn’t particularly care if they listened to him or not, he made his way down the hill and toward the path. He didn’t move too fast, of course; there was no need to make it seem that he was in any way displeased.
“I’m hungry,” said Kamali once they found the path. “It was no good to skip lunch.”
“Too much lunch can lead you to skip the rest of your day, and I’ve seen how you eat. You’re only half a Kamali in the afternoon,” responded Gula.
“Perhaps.” Kamali chuckled. “But I don’t deprive myself of the joys of food. It’s one of the great gifts of life.”
“You’re 19. You can eat like bulldozer and conserve your athletic figure, even despite your middling amount of exercise. But just wait until you’re 26.”
“When I’m 26 I’ll be 26,” retorted Kamali. The comment fell flat on its face, and Gula just smiled.
“Are you guys looking forward to going home, or are you excited about the days you have left here?” He realized that he didn’t know where he stood with these youth, so he figured that he might as well test the waters. Their responses pleased him: all of them said that they were happy about their stay at the camp being a good, long ten days.
“Do people generally stay in touch after this is done?” asked Seye. “After the camp is done?”
“There’s no one answer to that. We don’t formally measure that or keep track of it, so what I know is anecdotal, but I know that some cohorts have become very strongly bonded, some even planning an anniversary trip among themselves. And others just dissolve like a cracker into the wind as soon as everybody’s back home. Don’t know what it depends on.”
“Have any couples ever been formed here?” asked Seye.
“Eeeyo. You got your eye on anyone?” teased Kamali, and playfully elbowed the Nigerian. Even Barasa smiled at that one.
“It’s just a question. Tcht tcht.”
“Yes, a few. I imagine that you mean outside of what goes on here and in the week or two that follow. Every three or four cohorts we hear that two attendants have decided to make a go of it, and a few—two couples, to my knowledge—have moved in together.”
“Who moved? He or she?” asked Kamali.
Gula smiled at them, but hesitated. He was engaging with them, though, and that was valuable to him. “One each. In the first case that I know of, the guy moved to Angola. And in the other one, she moved to Kenya.”
The three teased each other a bit, discussing the girls at the camp, but Gula noted that none of them seemed particularly keen on any of them. They were just youth understanding what the landscape carried.
“I would’ve liked to have some avocado,” said Kamali. “Some of them looked pretty good. But here I am, walking through trees of fruit and starving.”
“You really do think about food all day, don’t you?” asked Seye.
At that moment a military helicopter flew overhead, and they watched it silently. Although there wasn’t any trouble around Thies, or not any trouble that they were aware of, it was always good to be wary of aircraft like that prowling around.

[Author’s note: Started this one at 10:36pm. Though not as bad as others I’ve started later, I don’t think I ever figured out where it was going. That may not be a factor of the hour I wrote it at, though. As a separate observation, trying to write a wise character with this kind of process is probably not going to end well. Wisdom generally takes thought, not just ‘filterless output’.]
