30 Minutes Human # 00046
Paranoid, Stalker, Alone, School, Fight Back
September 16, 2025

Why hadn't I shut the door? I stopped and looked back without turning. Was I sure I hadn't?
For a moment I went back and forth between returning and continuing on my walk, then decided to continue on my path. I couldn't be paranoid, I couldn't continue to second-guess myself on everything.
It was windy. I drew the jacket around myself as dry leaves fluttered about, a few of them hitting me in the face. The sky was a patchy and dismal shade of grey, but there was no telling if it would rain within the hour or until the following week.
I saw him when I reached the corner of 9th Street. He stood with his thin black jacket tightly hanging from his frame, a well-kept beard, a recent haircut. He was watching me. There was nothing between us but a two-lane street. There was nobody around, in fact. Not in front of me, not to my left. It was a scene out of a bad dream.
I turned and ran. I was wearing good flats and thanked my luck that I'd opted for these over the boots. I focused on the ground, on the cracks in the pavement, on moving as fast as humanly possible without falling flat on my face. I didn't turn to check if he was behind me.
I crossed three streets without seeing anybody. No cars, no pedestrians, no noise coming from any of the houses around. Silence and wind under grey skies.
My door was open. A voice in the back of my head was grateful for my having returned, but an even deeper voice wondered if I'd actually left it shut and then somebody else had opened it. He couldn't have gotten here before me; I'd run fast, and he couldn't have passed me without my seeing him, but the house didn't feel safe.
I locked the door, ran to the kitchen, and pulled the rolling pin from the third drawer. I didn't bake, but at some point it had seemed like a good idea to purchase one for self-defense. This wasn't the first time I drew it out.
I thought I heard a noise from upstairs, but it might've been my imagination. Damnit, damn this paranoia, damn this mind of mine, damn him for what he did to me. I felt safe nowhere.
Run or stay? Where was I safer?
Run. The middle of the street. If there were no cars, I'd stay in the middle of the street. I'd fight for my life with this rolling pin and scream like a true madwoman if he tried to touch me again. Yes, outside. Even if the houses were empty, they'd be silent witnesses to whatever happened.
I ran to the door and saw him through the glass panel. He stood on the sidewalk, hands in his jacket pockets, staring at me. I knew that he could see inside. I wasn't going to let him corner me. No, I was going out.
I'd once spent some time considering my escape options from this place. Backyard, over the fence, through the new neighbors' yard, to the street. I'd not met them, but somebody had mentioned that they were Punjabi. I prayed that they hadn't installed any gates to keep their yard visitor-free, grabbed the small indoors ladder, and ran out the back door.
As I opened it against the wooden fence I glanced back and didn't see him. Just a few more seconds and I'd be over. Should I take the ladder with me? No, just leave it.
I stepped up and hopped over, and was relieved to find nothing but dolls and children's toys scattered on the grass. There was a small inflatable pool, too. Pink and green and blue, circular, with unicorn-walruses drawn on the side. Even in this moment of terror and flight I couldn't help but to note the design. Cute. I'd do it differently, but cute.
I ran again. Out the side, finding no fence in my way, and to the street.  From the corner of my eye I glimpsed what seemed to be a figure standing on the corner, so I turned left and ran. Straight ahead, for several blocks, until I reached the school. Then I paused in the middle of the street.
There was something off about all of this. I'd still seen nobody on the street, or on any of the lawns or sidewalks, or in the houses. But here in the school there was finally a person. People, in fact. A group of about 20 kids, roughly of age 10, standing before a teacher and doing jumping-jacks.
I looked around and saw nothing, so I watched the kids for a second. Their jumping-jacks were uniform and in rhythm, apparently following the example set by the teacher, but as I watched I noticed that the scene didn't really make sense. There was no sound coming from them beside of the pitter-patter of feet on concrete. They all continued to follow the teacher's rhythm, all in step.
I watched them for a minute, for two minutes. Other than occasionally turning to check that I wasn't being approached, I observed the kids. Not only did they not stop, but their rhythm didn't change.
I thought about stepping in through the opening in the fence, but hesitated. A crazy-looking woman with a rolling pin, hair all out of place, very much out of breath, and looking like a maniac, should not be walking into a school. It felt wrong, though. The entire scene felt wrong. Were these even actual kids, actual people? It felt like a cheap simulation in a shopping mall display.
I glanced to my side and he was right there, next to me. My heart shrunk into a pebble as I gasped and stumbled a couple of steps backwards, and then I swung the rolling pin. It was a weak swing with low range, and it hit nothing. He had a mildly amused expression on his face. He started turning to face me directly.
And I ran again. More streets, more houses, more emptiness. Maybe if I got as far as the main road I'd find somebody there. And that somebody might be willing to help.
I'd been running too much, no breaks, no water. I was in decent shape, but sprinting like this out of the blue wasn't sustainable. My pace slowed to a walk and then I stood still, hands on my knees, eyes on the tarmac.
I saw his shadow and swung, though not before feeling the tips of his fingers in the middle of my back. I swung and I swung hard. I hit him.
Not in the head, but in the shoulder. It was hard as hell, though. I saw him wince as I stepped back.
"Stay away from me. I'm warning you."
He said something in response without changing his stance, but something shifted in the balance between us. I'd hurt him. He'd winced. He wasn't untouchable.
What he said didn't register. He didn't know what I carried with me under the back of my waistband. He'd find out. He'd find out! Once gods bleed, you never see them the same way again.

[Author's notes: I sneaked this one in around noon, at work. Not sure where I was going with this, but last night I read "The Melancholy of Herbert Solomon" and it probably influenced what happened here to some degree, particularly the beginning.]
