30 Minutes Human # 00040
Animators, Movie, Office, Heartbreak, Quiet
September 6, 2025

“Do you remember how it feels to hold a woman in your arms?”
Harvey glanced up and looked Rorris in the eye, but the other didn’t blink.
“Fuck you, Rorris.”
“That’s what you’re looking to draw. Not just the physics or physicality of it, but Hermes’ reaction to how it feels.”
They all looked down at the sketch. Rorris was right; Hermes’ pose was missing something. It was too robotic.
“Alright, I see it. Anything else, guys?” The last he asked while glancing around his peers. They all stepped back.
“Go for it, Harv.”
He was left alone with Rorris, the prince, and the princess. Rorris patted him on the shoulder and walked off.
He started anew with a blank sheet. The prince’s back and hip were off. Hermes’ face couldn’t be seen, but Harvey knew what Rorris meant. The back should be bent a little, a consequence of the magnetic draw of the princess’ face. And the hip shouldn’t be that far out. It should be nudged in, both for balance and because of the sexual electricity that such a moment would invariably carry.
This might be a kids’ movie, but people were people, youth most of all.
He did five new sketches, playing with the body positions. The princess looked more or less the same in all of them, because her role here was passive: she was laying back, as if on a chaise longue, and the only effort she needed to make was to hold her head up in order to keep herself actively close to him.
The fifth was right, it was on-point. Hermes was in the moment; the girl was his, if she’d have him, but her facial expression was enigmatic. Harvey had taken the chance to improve the look on her face in every iteration, and it had paid off. He wheeled over to Willis.
“Take a look.”
Willis was working on a rear view of the carriage. He put his pencil down and accompanied his colleague back to the desk by the door.
“Yeahhh. That’s what he meant. He may be an asshole, but he sure as shit understands drawing, doesn’t he? Awesome.” Willis rolled back and went back to drawing the tail-end of the coach.
‘I’m the one who drew it, not Rorris,’ distantly thought Harvey. He didn’t really mind that, though; what he hated was being on the receiving end of a challenge and having others doubt his ability, and here he’d proven that ability. He left the final version on his desk, grabbed his coat, and went outside for a smoke.
Julia from Accounting was walking towards the building when he stepped out and lit up by the door. He noted that her eyes were puffy, as if she’d been crying, which added up: Betts had told him that she’d just suffered through an ugly breakup with her beau. Tough break, Julia.
“How’s it going up there?” she asked. “You guys gonna make it on time?”
She wanted a distraction from her love life and from the numbers waiting for her indoors. He humored her.
“Don’t know. Some stuff is having to be redrawn, and apparently the writers are rethinking the entire first act of the movie. So who knows.”
“Yeah, I heard about that. But you know how he is, he’ll blame Illustration regardless.”
Harvey just shrugged and took a drag.
“What’re you working on right now?” she prodded.
Boy, she really didn’t want to go inside. Didn’t even have conversation to make; they were already at the ‘random questions’ stage of their tête-à-tête.
“Getting some motion down for the initial dance. There’s this one part that I was—that was kinda tricky. Where she sort of trips, and he holds her, but it’s not clear if she’d actually tripped or was just pretending. The body language has to be just right.”
“Yeah.” She nodded and looked towards the trees. He wondered if she was going to ask him for a cigarette. She didn’t smoke, to his knowledge, but big heartbreaks tended to be gateway moments.
“Men are shit, you know?”
He looked at her, a half-consumed cigarette between his fingers. In another setting he’d give her a hard time for saying that, but not here, not today. Julia was alright, and none of the versions of what he’d heard about her breakup painted the former boyfriend in a positive light.
He decided to cut to the chase; he wasn’t going to stay here longer than a cigarette anyway.
“I heard you’re having a tough time these days. Sucks.”
“Yeah,” she said, unperturbed by gossip about her making the rounds. “Sucks.”
They stood there in silence the rest of the time, and then he held the door for her as they entered.
When he returned to the upstairs drawing room they were all gathered around Betts’ desk. Harvey glanced toward his desk and saw a green post-it by the last sketch he’d made. Great. He could move on. Before that, though, he wanted to see what Betts was on.
There were nine sketches on the cluttered surface, each of them featuring two men facing off what was likely an indoor balcony. They were the Duke and his Senior Aide-de-Campe, François.
“I like the third one,” said Ansley. “Good combination of uniform and facial hair. Though maybe I’d thin the hair a bit, I don’t know what’s going on with that cowlick.” A couple of them chuckled at that.
“What about you, Willis?”
“Fourth one. Though I see what Ansley says about the uniform in the third one, there’s something there.”
“Harvey?”
Harvey knew that Rorris would only give his endorsement after each of them had shared their opinion. It made sense to do that. Despite how decidedly unpleasant the man was, Rorris could steer a team like nobody else he’d seen.
“I like the first one. Their bearing, in particular. I think it really captures the shape of the Duke, and his relationship with the world he stands on. Also, François’ stance is just the right degree of casual in that one.”
There were a few nods around the table. Rorris echoed it.
“Yeah. Pose is the first. François uniform is the eighth one, as well as the Duke’s monocle. Duke’s uniform in the third. I think François facial expression and setup are also best in the first. Willis, I don’t know what the hell you like about the fourth. Or you, Wren. The Duke’s expression and hair is… maybe the fifth.”

[Author’s note: I ran a minute over on this one; guess I was enjoying myself. I was thinking of Cinderella (Disney, 1950) when writing, and was probably inspired by my reading of Chuck Amuck a year or two ago. The scene with Julia could be seen as a distraction or not… it depends on how much the scene says about Harvey’s character. I very clearly saw Julia as being a tad plump in my mind’s eye, though not overly so. My mental view of the setting outside was inspired by Bletchley Park.]
