30 Minutes Human # 00037
Bully, Brazil, Basketball, Fight, Cruel
September 2, 2025

“Hey, stupid.”
Flavia turned around. Flavia was an idiot—by now she should know what was coming.
“What are these socks you’re wearing? They look like they were given to you by your depressed dying grandma… after having used them for five years.”
She glanced down at her feet. Did she not realize what she was wearing? She looked like a cartoon character from a hundred years ago. Anybody might say that I was only trying to help.
“What’s wrong with them? They’re red. Many other people wear red socks.”
Oh, she was going to talk back? None of that, sister. Way off.
“What’s wrong with them? You look like a cheap toy from the ghetto. If you took those socks off and washed them, they wouldn’t be good for rags to clean dishes at a soup kitchen. I almost vomited when I saw you. Other people wear red socks, but what you’re wearing is the equivalent to a colored used diaper.”
I didn’t know about that last line, but she blushed a bit and looked away, and her eyes watered. Good enough. No more talking back from this one.
“Get out of my way, loser.” I pushed my way past her and down the hall. I got a couple of inconspicuous looks and two wiser girls stepped out of the way to let me through.
English class was uneventful, and so was Geography. We talked about the Trojan war and Ribeiro, as usual, got all excited about Achilles and some other guys. We’re supposed to be learning English, aren’t we? What a stupid class. He didn’t ask me any questions this time, which was just fine with me. Geography was about African capitals. Why would I care? But whatever. I’m good at memorizing. Abuja. Accra. Maputo. Some of the clowns in class giggled at that one. I’m surrounded by morons.
On the way out of class I ran into Marcela. She was sucking on a lolly, probably the third of the day. That was immensely stupid; her teeth would be in a sorry state within ten years or so. She did this instead of smoking sometimes, which was just as bad.
I stared at the lolly between her lips until she remarked about it, and then gave her the usual spiel. She didn’t give a damn, went with her usual “I love to have stuff in my mouth.” Oh, you’ll do well. I walked off toward the gym and she followed, babbling something about a guy she’d gone out with a couple of times.
Flavia was doing something at her locker and, when she saw me coming, stumbled and dropped about eight books on the floor. She looked like she was about to cry. I simply walked by and kicked a couple of the notebooks down the hall, not without checking if I was being watched by any teachers, and as we continued unperturbed Marcela guffawed. She was dumb as a rock, but still useful to have around.
“Moraes! Get changed, come on. We start in five.”
I didn’t glance at her, but Coach Morado was just about the only member of the faculty I could stand. She didn’t suffer fools or laziness, and enjoyed making life miserable for clowns when she came across them.
Practice went off the rails pretty quickly. There were two new girls trying out from a lower grade, and they looked hopeful. They also looked pretty. I resolved to ruin their day. A darker-skinned one who looked like Andrea Pereira took my knee to the stomach while dribbling past me, and then my elbow to the neck during a free throw. Morado saw nothing, of course.
The other one, skinny and pale and brown-haired, surprised me. I tripped her as she was running the lane, and then leaned over and called her a few choice words as she lay on the ground. I also considered spitting on her, but as I did she caught me off-guard by grabbing my ponytail and yanked me down to the floor. She would’ve elbowed me in the face if I hadn’t caught it and blocked it. Morado had to tear us apart.
I was furious. Beside myself with rage. This scrawny, pallid stick figure had really just done that? She’d not only challenged me, but also hit me? No, sister. You’re way off.
“That’s enough, you two. Moraes, Costa here just joined us. She’s good. And you’re gonna let her play.”
I glared at this new Costa character, quickly listing the things I would do to her from here to the end of the week. All the other girls stood by in quiet shock, probably never having seen anybody stand up to me like that. This wouldn’t work. As Morado ranted I walked up to this creature and spat in her face, hard. She reached out to slap me (it was a fast slap, to her minor credit), but Morado caught her wrist.
“Moraes. You’re out for two practices. Maybe the next match as well. Get the hell off my court.”
I’d been kicked out before, so I wasn’t too worried about it. But I’d never been challenged before, not like this, and definitely not by one of the lower-aged girls. Hell no.
I changed back to my uniform and stormed out of school, eyes forward and head elsewhere. I was going to decimate that worthless piece of lint. As I crossed the street by the Oxxo a limp mutt crossed my path and almost made me trip, which earned it a swift kick in the ribs. Little turd. See if you do that again. Then I realized that it might be a protected dog, so despite glancing around and seeing nobody coming at me, I sped up.
As I passed the playground I saw Marcos Lima sitting on one of the swings, slowly floating back and forth. Was he crying? The possibility of it made me slow down and try to determine if he was, but he was too far, and I didn’t care enough to find out. I’d slip the observation to Felipe some other time.
* * *
Oriana sneezed in class the following day and got meleca all over her face as a result of it. I hadn’t laughed that sincerely in a while; she’d never live this down. As she left the room, shoulders hunched and head down under that disgusting mop of curly black hair, I saw Lita make a move and I thought she was going to pie her—to rub the stuff all over her face. I wouldn’t do that myself, way too disgusting… and as it turns out, Lita didn’t do it either. Good choice. That would’ve been a bad look.
As I’d learned, the name of the bony rat from the previous day was Carolina “Caro” Costa. She’d been at this school for a couple of years, but had until a few weeks earlier practiced basketball externally. I’d pushed for more detail and had learned that her mother had suffered from cancer, and beaten it, not too long ago. That was nice. I could’ve waited until practice that afternoon, but I was already banned, and I didn’t want to wait. So I made my way to her grade’s lockers as soon as I got out, hoping to catch her in the hallway. People wouldn’t forget this between-class break any time soon.

[Author’s notes: I’d wanted to write a horrible person for a while, and this is a decent first stab at it. Not sure why I ended up at a female school bully in Brazil, but it works. I wrote this while listening to an “easy reggae” mix on YouTube, figuring that it would boost this character’s development; I don’t care for reggae at all. The music was nice, though, so it was ultimately dissonant.]
