30 Minutes Human # 00036
Ending, Neighborhood, Pets, Friendships, Growing Up
September 1, 2025

She sat next to him on the curb. The two puppies were wrestling with each other on the grass across the street, clearly overjoyed at having each other’s company once more.
“So, what now? What’ll you do?”
“I don’t know,” he said, his eyes on the little dogs. Witty had gotten the upper hand, and Squeals was nibbling on her ear.  “Maybe I go back home, maybe I go somewhere else for a while. This has been good. Better than I expected.”
She playfully gave his knee a gentle pound with her fist. “Do you really think you’ll find somewhere else what you found here?”
He looked at her and smiled. She remembered the first time she’d seen him, at the ice cream shop. The smile he’d given her, the way his eyes had sparkled with mischief. It felt like an eternity ago. She had no idea what she was getting into when she wrote her number on that napkin, but she knew she’d do it again in a heartbeat if given the chance.
“I’ll find something else,” he said. “Another adventure. Not like this one, probably not like this one,” he added as he ran a finger over the scar on the back of his hand as she grinned. “But it’ll be good. Meet some new people. There’s good people everywhere. Even here, as it turns out.”
“Yeah.” She turned and looked at Gomez, who was laughing and chatting with the Gibsons as he drank what was probably a mimosa. She wouldn’t have believed that he could smile as much as he was right now, but he looked happy. Like he’d taken an unexpected chance to crawl out of a deep hole he’d been in. “I wonder if things will change.”
“Hmm?”
“Like really change,” she said. “If people will not just become close for a bit but actually stay close. If the neighborhood will grow tighter and honest-to-God relationships will result from all this.”
“Maybe.” He shrugged. “Maybe not. Maybe they’ll forget. But you won’t.”
She glanced over at him and caught the mischievous smirk. He was right. She never would.

“Guys, guys! Look!” Jonathan had run up behind them while holding Lil’ Rick. The little Golden Retriever’s fur looked like something out of a magazine ad and felt even better.
“What’s up, buddy?” asked Nelson.
“He’s starting to walk by himself. Let me show you, look.” He placed the puppy on the ground and it curled into a ball immediately.
“Nooooo, come on, like I showed you, come on.” The boy gently pried the dog’s legs apart and placed him on the grass, and this time the dog kept that position. Then, seeing his human friend’s face right before him, he took a couple of tentative steps before whining lightly.
“Jay, that’s amazing!” cried Abby. “And look how nice he looks, and how nice he smells! He’ll have recovered in no time, and all thanks to you!”
Jonathan beamed, said something in the lines of, “Yep, yep!” and ran back to his brother and sister.
“So will I see you again?” she heard herself asking. But as she turned around to face Nelson, she realized that she was sitting alone. He was approaching Officer Bailey, who watched him walk over before extending his hand for a man-to-man handshake.
Abby couldn’t hear what they said, but she could imagine it. If Officer Bailey had the courage for it, he would apologize then and there. Nelson would accept the apology, they’d exchange the brief, awkward sentences of two men who preferred to be short on words, and then part ways. She wasn’t quite sure how she knew this, but as she watched it play out and then saw Nelson offer a final nod and walk away, she knew she’d been right on the money.
“Abs!!” She heard her father’s voice and for a moment it made her happier than anything she’d known in months, if not years. She’d always known that he’d forever be there for her, given in part that he permanently said so, but she hadn’t known known. She’d listened to her dumb friends (never again, Angelica) and allowed herself to fall away from the most important man in her life, and she’d almost hurt him and others because  it. Never again. She’d be daddy’s girl for all time, and she’d be proud of it.
“Yeah, Daddy!” She stood and started toward him. Then something came over her and she broke into a run, jumped into him, and gave him the hug she’d been owing him since she was nine and decided that she was too cool for hugs. Forget all that.
He seemed taken aback, but the joy in his eyes when she pulled back was unmistakable and undistilled. They smiled at each other for a moment they’d both remember for the rest of their lives.
“I spoke with the Gibsons,” he said. “They’re going to push to reinstate petsitting, but it’ll have to be properly done, monitored, with records and tracking and everything to make sure that dogs and cats and kittens and ferrets and even Marty Bishop’s hamster are always safe.”
“Daddy that’s awesome!!” She knew that ‘Daddy’ was overkill over ‘Dad’, but she didn’t care. Not today. He seemed just fine with it as well.
Before she could add something else, he added, “They’d like somebody to run point on the execution of whatever the Association votes for, and they’re going to nominate you for it. There’s no way you won’t get it… if you want it.”
For a moment she remembered the horrible things she’d said to him that morning months ago and felt terrible, but then saw him so happy, and felt so happy herself, that she let it go. She genuinely wished for this this now. Forget the rest. “Of course I want it. That would be awesome!”
“That’s great! Come, let’s tell Calgary and Barbara.”
As he led her towards the middle-aged couple, who had astonishingly not once lost their composure throughout any of this, she saw Nelson reach his motorcycle and start putting his helmet on. She had a sudden impulse to go to him but resisted it. As she watched him get ready to ride off, her dad squeezed her hand.
“He wasn’t a bad guy, Abs. Nelson. At the end of it all, I was wrong. We were all wrong. Let me be clear,” he said in the tone she knew so well, “He’s still not the sort of guy I’d like for you. But I think he’s an honest guy who puts his money where his mouth is and is willing to fight for what’s right, and who doesn’t care what others think of it. So…” he fumbled for a moment, “well, maybe he is the kind of guy I’d like to see you with. In a way. Sort of.”
He stopped walking and held her hand, so she stopped to face him. “Abs, that’s the last time I say something like that. You’re a big girl; you’ve proven that in spades. I’ll support any guy you choose for yourself. Yeah.” The last word he meant for himself. “Yeah, I trust you, kiddo.”
She hugged him again and remembered flashes of him since she was a young girl. Always there, always watching, always concerned, always encouraging. She’d always had the finest father a girl could hope for, and it had taken her until age 17 to figure it out.
Maybe 17 was, as they all said, still young. If that was the case, then what she had to look forward to was all the time in the world to make things right and keep them there.

[Author’s notes: As it turns out, 11:20pm is also too late to start writing one of these. I’d wanted to write the end of a story for a while, and I think this worked out well. It might’ve dragged on a bit, but that’s the downside of the 30-minute target when you come to the end of something and gotta keep going.]
