30 Minutes Human # 00039
Penguins, Parents, Spoilt Child, Travel, Antarctica
September 6, 2025

There weren’t enough penguins in the zoo. Amélie absolutely loved those cute little things, and no matter how many the exhibit had—they’d been to zoos with 10, 15, 18 penguins—it wasn’t enough.
“More penguins!” she would yell, furious. She would slam her fists down on the railings, or on the glass, or on the small shelves installed for people to use while they enjoyed their hamburgers and watched the penguins frolic.
But there wouldn’t be any more penguins at that moment, because each zoo has a finite number of them. She’d not care about any of the other animals, no matter how active, rare, colorful, or big. Her parents were desperate.
“What do we do?” her father would ask in the comfort and confidence of the marital bedroom. “How do we please her with sufficient penguins? There are no wild penguins around here, or anywhere nearby. And where we go, there are never enough penguins for her.”
“We must figure something out. It’s our duty to her, as parents. We cannot fail her in something so simple.”
They’d traveled the world, or at least the tropical belt of the planet, seeking penguins in zoos, in refuges, in sanctuaries. There were never enough, though, not just because Amélie was demanding, but because it was difficult and expensive to keep penguins in these latitudes.
“That’s enough. We know what we must do. We cannot put it off any longer,” said her mother one night. They were in bed, this time in a hotel. Amélie slept in the adjoining room with noise-canceling headphones, white noise, and aromatizer all installed and running. “We must go to where the penguins are.”
“There? It is dreadfully cold, dreadfully cold.” Her father wrapped the double blankets over himself. “We can keep looking. This is an entire planet with a wealth of places we have yet to discover. I’m certain we’ll—”
“—continue to disappoint her as a consequence of our lack of dedication, of our lack of true sacrifice. We must take it up a level.” She glared at him, bony hands tightly gripping the newspaper she was reading, the bright pink sleeves and neck of her nightgown showing. “It’s decided.”
Her husband cringed, looked hopelessly dejected, pulled his facemask down, and rolled over on his right side. He would have to go to the Cold.
It happened as the mother ordained. Although neither of them was keen on going deep into South America, given that it was a horrid, backwards land if what they read was to be believed, they decided to sacrifice their standards for their daughter. They traveled through several airports, lugging their carry-ons and cold-weather garments as necessary, and eventually arrived at the southern tip of everything. Neither of the parents knew whether they were in Argentina, Chile, or Brazil, or somewhere else entirely. Amélie didn’t care. She’d been promised penguins.
Then came a challenge. So far all their searches had been powered by commercial air travel, but to go where they sought they would need an alternative. This would be true adventure. True adventure, they’d been told, was costly.
Through difficult communication with the locals they were able to identify a private air charter provider who, for a significant price (the mother reared up proudly when she was told this figure, because she, unlike most others, could afford it for her daughter) would fly them to where penguins awaited.
Once they met their soon-to-be transportation provider, they were given even more gratifying news. This was not tourist country they were heading to; there would be no “hotels” below. But he would be happy to provide a “modified” seaplane that would comfortably house them while they sought the flightless bird of Amélie’s fancy. He would be happy to bunk elsewhere, in significant discomfort, as long as his clients (now also his guests) were satisfied with his services. This all for an increased price, of course, but a surgical glance from the mother to the father was all it took for him to happily accept the proffered terms. It was all for Amélie’s wellbeing.
Amélie, of course, wasn’t interested in the details on the expense being sailed into for her benefit. She sat on a thinly cushioned stool, buried in two layers of the warmest deep winter jackets, and read her magazine on Antarctic waterfowl. Though this particular issue featured no penguins, the publisher promised a mention of them in every print, and she was fascinated by the advertised detail on the relationship between the pink-faced sheathbill and penguins, which by all accounts, if she could only find the article in the thin booklet, was a fascinating one.
They departed the following morning, the father’s significant family authority getting them a comfortably late 5:50AM flight time. They did not care for the much-spoken-of brutally long nights and short days, nights and days that they were wading through to fulfill their firstborn’s dreams, because they believed they would accomplish their objectives.
“So, penguins?” As it turned out, the man could speak both English and French quite well, given the good fortune of international internet availability, which opened wide gates to global entertainment. He may also have been a First World citizen, but despite the mother’s prodding, he’d declined to share his background or even nationality. She did not like the idea of this man having something to hide, but as long as he delivered Amélie’s fantasy, he could be the Grand Boogeyman himself and she’d little care.
“Penguins,” said Amélie expectantly. Her short legs kicked air from where she sat.
“Penguins,” echoed the mother. The father sat quietly and gazed out the window, wishing for toast. An internet review he’d read years earlier hypothesized that only dignified nations knew how to toast bread, so he no longer attempted to find proper toast on his travels outside of certain regions. It might be hopeless. He’d focus on a breakfast diet of kiwi and lemon juice and had learned to ignore the discomfort that this daily morning bowl seemed to generate.
“Alright, penguins it is.” The pilot may or may not have adjusted his course after reaching that important conclusion; they didn’t have sufficient airborne sensitivity to tell. But he’d promised penguins and they had paid him for it, so one might only expect that the man would deliver.
The father contemplated his life as he sat there and wondered where he’d gone astray. He was a simple man. He liked bears. But he loved the idea of bears in the African Safari, and as a youth had repeatedly spent his savings trying to find black or panda bears in the Serengeti. It had not paid off, but he believed that if he’d not married, or of he’d not married this woman in particular, he would’ve found what he sought.
Instead, here he sat. Staring out the window, seeking penguins. Yes, it would make Amélie happy, and that was a blessing, but he knew he’d lost a corner of himself along the way.

[Author’s notes: This is a great example of a story evolving as it’s told. I had no idea what the first sentence was going to be until I wrote it, and the same applies to the second and third. Then it started to take a certain direction, but then the world and its characters further evolved and I found a groove. This one was enjoyable to gestate. Also: wrote this one at night, but not too late at night. Added a couple of minutes at the end to make up for distractions that interrupted my session.]
