30 Minutes Human # 00047
Plane, Medical Emergency, Suspicious, Syringe, Passengers
September 21, 2025

I'm sitting on a plane and I observe that the man in the row ahead of me—ahead and one seat to the right—has just tapped on his cordless earphone. He's been sitting still all this time, listening to something, but now he's done. He's about to get up.
He stands. There's a middle-aged woman with a white blouse and mid-length blonde hair sitting next to him. She looks up and he gestures out, so she unbuckles her seat and steps into the aisle.
I glance at his face when he faces the back of the plane. Unshaven but not unkempt. The baseball cap, which is dark blue, features the logo for the New York Yankees. If it's not a new cap, it's very well taken care of.
He sees me looking. I hold his gaze for a moment, then look away. Why stare? He moves toward the back of the plane.
A minute passes. I hear first what sounds like a scuffle, then voices of alarm, then a yell. A yell on an airplane is at the very least cause for curiosity, if not cause for concern. I look over my shoulder, through the gap between the seats. Nothing, the next row blocks my view. I unbuckle and half-get-up.
A cluster of passengers stands. They are looking down at the aisle. I note that the overhead baggage compartments are closed, so nothing fell from up there. In a controlled environment like this one, there can only be so many things on the floor. Not an animal, and people wouldn't gather over a broken electronic device or spilled liquid. It must be a person, then.
They seemed confused, as if they don't know what to do. Then a couple of them exclaim at the same time, and the circle around the spot on the floor widens a little, like the individual down there spasmed and threw a hand out, or threw up, or anything else that might make an onlooker seek a bit more distance.
I notice that the man in the baseball cap is standing at the far end, at a second or third layer of gawkers. It's not him on the floor, then. I don't think I would particularly care if it were, though we share a minute kinship, he and I. He sits in front of me. I watched his actions moments earlier. We shared eye contact, neither friendly nor unfriendly. Whatever the case, it's not the Yankees fan on the floor.
"Doctor!" somebody yells out. "Is there a doctor here?"
"Come on folks, is anybody a doctor?!" the second voice is that of somebody slightly dejected that he wasn't the first to call for medical aid. A flight attendant breaks through the group, slips past the Yankees fan, and enters the back of the plane.
Nothing happens for about a minute, other than a couple of additional cries for medical professionals and a couple of people crouching down and then standing up again. At one point a blanket, dark blue with square patches of dark red, passes over the seats and goes down into where the injured party lies.
Several other passengers are, like me, half-standing to watch the action, and a couple of them take their seats again. I see wisdom in that. A female voice speaks through the intercom: "If there is a doctor, nurse, or other medical professional on board, please come to the rear of the plane. We have a medical emergency. Those of you currently standing in the area, please return to your seats immediately. Thank you."
I watch for another long moment and note that nobody gets up and caters to the attendant's request; there are apparently no doctors on board. At least not any willing to reveal themselves, Hippocratic Oath be damned.
I retake my seat and, a moment later, Yankees Fan taps on the woman's shoulder and slips back into his seat.
Bored, I sit a bit straighter, crane my neck a bit taller. I see a needle and syringe very briefly flash before him, then the sound of a zipper, then the momentary glimpse of a small dark beige burlap case, then nothing.
I wonder if what I've just seen is in any way related to the crisis at the back of the plane. It might be, sure, but if you're going to prick somebody with a needle so they die or are otherwise incapacitated on the floor of an airplane, would you then be so obvious to your seat neighbors?
Maybe they're in on it, of course. I open the window to my left and look outside. I shouldn't be too obvious about how closely I'm watching these individuals. Maybe the three of them are all in it together. Maybe I'm the only witness. Yankees Fan looked me straight in the eye. Damn.
It sure is cloudy outside today. I wonder if I'll make it out of the plane alive. I know that the odds of this being a hit squad sitting in front of me are low, but they're not non-zero. The world is a wild place these days.
I want to know what's going on in the back, but also hope to not appear too curious. Curiosity gets the better of me; a life lived without risk is little life at all. I quietly unbuckle my seatbelt, hoping that it doesn't make enough noise to alert the potential assassins an arm's reach away from me, and half-stand once more. Everybody's in their seats. The curtain leading to the rear cabin has been closed. Several pairs of eyes come up to meet mine.
If whomever fell ill back there passes away, we probably won't hear about it at all.
"Dear passengers, please be aware that the rear lavatories or cabin area will not be available for the rest of the flight. If you need to make use of a lavatory, you are welcome to access the one at the front of the plane."
There it is. Good thing I'm too cheap to buy a bottle of anything on here; I still remember when food and beverages were free on flights, and refuse to encourage the over-capitalistic practice of charging for them.
I look out the window again and zone out, some part of me wishing that I'd stopped by a bookstore before arriving at the airport, or at least bought whatever was available in the Duty Free zone.
The thought comes to me like lightning. Somebody's back there, perhaps very hurt, perhaps very ill, perhaps dead. They've eliminated the chance that any other passenger can go check on, or even see, this individual.
But we remain on our flight path. This is an overland flight, and there are airports all over the place below us. Airports where a mid-sized commercial aircraft like this one could easily land during an emergency.
But the flight continues on its path. No emergency landing, not even the show of it. I've been on a couple of flights with medical emergencies before, and there have been unplanned landings on both.
Why not here? Is the person so well that they don't need medical attention? If that was the case, they'd not close off the rear cabin. And if they do need attention, or have passed away, we'd go to the nearest airport.
So what gives? Who's in on this?

[Author's notes: I wrote this while on a flight. The twist at the end has me intrigued. Is everybody in on it? Who died, and why? // Editing notes: I tried to edit this while very tired and couldn't focus, so it ended up being edited more than once. I think it shows in how much better the text flows here than in others.]
