30 Minutes Human # 00044
Aimless, Bus, Pretty Girl, Approach, Coffee
September 13, 2025

“I’m going out for a bit. See you later.”
He closed the door without waiting for a response and was on the street within half a minute.
It had rained that afternoon, but most of the water and puddles were dried up. There remained that indeterminate air of humidity that permeates air recently rained through, and it was an air he didn’t care for, but that couldn’t be helped.
He walked aimlessly at first, gazing through storefronts without looking at anything, weaving through crowds of friends, and stopping at some corners while continuing through others when it felt safe enough to do so. He didn’t know where he was going, but merely knew that he had to move.
After a while he found himself on the bridge in the middle of Ttis Park. He’d often thought it pointless, thought it decoration for the sake of the decoration, and today looking down on the small stream below him it seemed specially so. Metaphorical, even. Most of everything was pointless. What you did, what you worried about, what you looked forward to and what you looked back on. All as pointless as this dumb bridge.
He didn’t know where to go from here. There wasn’t anything ahead of him, and wandering about scantly lit fields, parking lots, and industrial sideroads didn’t feel appealing. But going back meant looking for what? It certainly meant approaching home again. In a way, it might even mean defeat.
A bus, then. He’d go somewhere else where things happened that wasn’t this particular place where things happened.
There were only four available seats on the bus, and each bench had at least one passenger on it. He’d not ridden the bus for years and had forgotten the reality of it; this was how many got around town and lived their lives. The daily commute was a brutal reality for most people in town.
Some of his fellow passengers were looking out the window, a couple were napping, others scrolling on their phones, and two were reading paperbacks. One of those two was a pretty girl in her late 20s. Gray coat, red-checkered scarf, hair in a bun, gold earrings. She was wearing vintage headphones that could’ve been connected to a Walkman like his brother used to own.
She glanced up and their eyes met for a moment before he yanked his gaze away. Busted. But he’d caught a glimpse of grey-blue eyes on a face that would probably haunt him for the next few days.
He faced out the window before him, pretending disinterest in everything, doing everything in his power to not look at her again. It was rude to stare, he knew. And men looking at women on buses was a no-good scenario in ten out of ten scenarios, if news and pop culture were to be believed.
She put her book aside for a moment to check something on her phone, and he sneaked a glimpse of the cover. The Count of Monte Cristo. Classic and clichéd, but no less classic for it. He’d read it not too long ago.
“Hey, doofus.”
The little cartoon cricket was speaking to him. Jiminy Cricket, sitting in a field of flat white.
“Hey. Do life. Life is now. Every moment is life. Remember? Remember all the shit you tell yourself to get yourself moving? So. Do life. There’s no best moment. Go.”
He blinked, landing back from his brief zone-out. As if on cue, the bus stopped, and the woman in the large green jacket sitting next to the girl stepped off to the curb.
This was it. He’d look back on this afterward. Go. Who cares?
He stood up and sat next to the girl, prudently leaving a seat between them. A couple of possible lines went through his head, including the decidedly unwise ‘Is it creepy for a guy to talk to a girl on the bus about the book she’s reading?’ Don’t say creepy, Stu. Come on.
“Hi there,” he said. He briefly considered what he’d do if she didn’t react. Tapping her on the arm would be out of the question. Waving like a loon to get her attention? Maybe better to jump out the window.
Fortunately, it wasn’t necessary. She glanced over and removed the headphone from her right ear, then waited for him to speak.
“Sorry, I saw that you’re reading that book and… well I read it recently.”
She considered him for a moment. First his face, then his body language and outfit. After a moment, she seemed to make a decision.
“And did you like it?”
A voice in the back of his head hooted in disbelief. Now don’t screw this up, chicky.
“I did. Second time I read it, but the first time I was a kid. Hits different when you’re older.”
“And how much older are you?” There was a hint of a shadow of a smile on her lips.
“I’m thirty.”
“Ah.”
“Is this the first time you read it?” He nodded toward the book, desperate for a break in the conversation. He was aware that some of the other passengers were watching.
“No, third time. Second was a couple of years ago, first time I was also a kid.”
“A couple of years ago? How come you’re returning to it so soon?”
“Life circumstances,” she said with a small nod.
‘Fuck it, Stewart,’ he thought. In his mind’s eye he saw a flash of the cricket lounging before a white background.
“Look, my name is Stewart. Stu. I’ve never done this before, but I saw you here reading this book and I—” and you what, dickhead? “Could I—would you like to have a cup of coffee with me?” He vaguely gestured outside.
Well, it’s done. If the answer is negative, you’ll look at this from a few different angles later, but you went for it. Bless you, Big Stu.
She raised her phone, said “stay still,” and took a picture of him. Then she said, “show me some ID.” He pulled out his wallet and offered his driver’s license and work badge. She chose the former and photographed it as well, then sent them to someone through SMS.
“Alright. Let’s have a coffee. My three best friends have your name and information, so if anything happens to me, they’ll find you.” There was an earnest sincerity to her eyes at that moment that made him wish for friends like that.
He replied nothing and just nodded.
“So where are we going?” she asked.
He blinked. Where were they? He looked outside and was momentarily lost before seeing the big red sculpture the city had installed a few years earlier. He knew where he was, and as it happened, knew a couple of decent spots around here.

[Author’s note: There’s something to writing about electricity. And there’s something to characters temporarily lacking an internal north star. The combination thereof can lead to fine intersections.]
